as Muslims around the world celebrate
the end of the Holy fasting month of
Ramadan Palestinians in Gaza are marking
Eid under the shadow of war the Hamas
run Health Ministry says at least 14
people were killed and dozens injured by
Israeli strikes on the eve of the
holiday Eid is usually characterized by
joyous celebrations but this year most
of gaza's population are displaced from
their homes and facing critical
shortages of food and other essential
supplies though markets were selling
festive food and clothing ahead of Eid
much of it was highly inflated in
price in an interview with Spanish
language TV network Univision US
President Joe Biden said he doesn't
agree with the approach taken by Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in
Gaza calling for an immediate halt in
fighting to allow for significant Food
Supplies to get in what I'm calling for
is
for the Israeli to just call for
ceasefire allow for the next 68 weeks
Total Access to all food and Medicine
going into the country I've spoken with
everyone from the Saudis to the
jordanians to the Egyptians they're
prepared to move in they're prepared to
move this food in and I think there's
there there's no excuse to not provide
for the medical and the and the and the
and the food needs of those people they
should be done now hea TV the country
director of care joins me now from rala
hea first up Eid Mubarak uh Eid Al fer
is the Feast of breaking the fast uh
tell me how are Palestinians in Gaza
able to do that this
year good morning Nicole and thank you
so much Mubarak for all those who
celebrated around the world and
especially for the people in Gaza uh
unfortunately we always welcome theid
with after a very harsh time of uh of or
harsh worship that is very diff very
strong and uh difficult on on on us as
as human beings but now in in Gaza
unfortunately while we uh start the day
with with special prayers with kids
specifically celebrating with new
clothes with very simple sweets it is
not happening in Gaza the images that
you have shown as you mentioned in the
report although there are some uh uh
Commodities related to to to celebrate
it in the market but they are 10 times
the prices or 15 times the prices and
all of that in the South not even in the
north um unfortunately many all of the
people that we talk to I don't know
anyone in Gaza who did not lose someone
of their family and although it's a time
for celebration they just wake up and
they try to do the prayer but then
immediately I just spoke to my
colleagues immediately go to secure food
water just like the other days and even
with more Sorrows thinking and
remembering those those that they lost
unfortunately he to what extent have
this year's celebrations in the
Palestinian territories taken on a
different meaning since the war broke
out everything took a different meaning
Dear Nicole since 7th October for us so
here in West Bank um comparably we are
in safe environment compared to Gaza but
none of us even Ramadan it came in a
different way our prayers our food on
the table wasting food for instance
everything all simple practices on daily
basis they differed this includes
unfortunately the prayers for theid all
of our prayers go for the people in Gaza
wishing for peace in the coming days
hoping that there will not be an
invasion land invasion in Rafa hoping
for Aid to enter and praying for them to
at least be able to be safe over the
next period and of course praying for a
sustained uh end of war with ceasefire
so it's not like the same you feel this
uh you feel all of the pain of the
people looking at the images of mothers
who lost their kids reunion with kids
who lost their families to celebrate Eid
is something that is so emotional for
all of us we just heard US President Joe
Biden there saying there is no excuse
for Israel oh it's a very very emotional
day and time for you I'm I'm very sorry
um that message from US President Biden
I hope you you had a chance to listen to
it he said there was no excuse for
Israel to not let Aid into Gaza how
important are messages like this one for
improving the situation on the
ground over the last six months and now
we are entering the seventh uh month we
are calling for for the aid sustained
Aid entry to Gaza the needs are massive
and every day that that and go on we see
the more needs that are growing
including for instance access to food
access to fuel access to clothes basic
needs in the daily life of gazan people
and we have heard even the UN saying the
UN specialist saying that Gaza needs to
be flooded by Aid and if this happens
this will allow only for saving the
lives that are at the at the edge of
losing we are that that we are at the
edge of losing them if this happens this
will allow us if sustain with with
enabling environment to reach out to
distribute the aid in a more systemic
organized way that would mean a lot and
will literally save the people's lives
over the next days and we hope it will
happen that was hea TV car's country
director in ramala thank you so
much thank
you